14.3 Cryptographic Kill-Switches (Epidemic

Revocation)
If an administrator accidentally deploys a critical financial payload containing an infinite loop or a
catastrophic logic error, they cannot SSH into 100 million or more (e.g., 15 billion) edge nodes to
kill the processes.
Instead, they execute an Epidemic Revocation.

1. The Poison Pill: The Gateway Administrator cryptographically signs a 256-byte
Revocation Certificate with their Root Key, targeting the specific JobId .
2. The Gossip: The certificate is injected into the Kademlia DHT. Utilizing the Plumtree
protocol, the kill-order propagates to 100 million or more (e.g., 15 billion) nodes in
$O(\log N)$ time (typically
under 5 seconds for 15 billion devices).
3. The Guillotine: Every marabunta-visor receives the gossip, cryptographically
verifies the Root Key signature against the Genesis Block, and instantly drops the
target
workload. The daemon flushes the linear memory of the WASM sandbox and
permanently erases the .mrb-dump journals from the local BlobStore.

The Swarm is autonomous, but the Administrator’s cryptographic signature holds absolute,
instantaneous veto power over the physics of the network.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

69

ANNEX A: The Sovereign Science
Fabric & The Economic Syndicate
A.1 The Geopolitical Context: The Abyssal Treaty
In the era of localized sovereign computing, the monolithic public cloud is an economic bottleneck
for fundamental science. The egress fees alone render petabyte-scale physics simulations financially
impossible for independent academic and research institutions.
To break this cartel, three nations with deeply aligned petrochemical interests—Brazil, Norway, and
the United Kingdom—established the Abyssal Treaty. Their shared objective: processing
thousands of terabytes of raw acoustic .segy data to perform Full Waveform Inversion (FWI) on
deep-sea seismic reflection models (e.g., the Brazilian Pre-Salt, the Norwegian Barents Sea, and the
UK North Sea).
Rather than renting supercomputers, they pooled their sovereign citizen networks into a single,
time-zone-arbitraged Marabunta Swarm.

The Three Pillars of the Fabric:
1. Brazil (The Gamer Grid): Bundled as an opt-in background daemon within a massively
popular indie video game developed by IME/USP alumni. Millions of Brazilian teenagers with
high-end, L3-heavy Ryzen CPUs and DDR5 RAM donate compute cycles while they sleep in
exchange for MMX micro-credits, which unlock exclusive cosmetic skins.
2. Norway (The Civic Tax Swarm): A progressive Scandinavian digital initiative where citizens
run the Marabunta daemon on idle MacBooks and home servers. At the end of the fiscal year,
cryptographically verified MMX execution receipts are burned in exchange for microdeductions on their income tax.
3. The UK (The Night-Shift Academic Net): Imperial College and allied universities link
hundreds of thousands of library desktops and Raspberry Pi lab clusters that sit idle from 8:00
PM to 8:00 AM.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

70

Because the sun never sets on this fabric, thermodynamic efficiency is absolute. When it is 3:00 AM
in São Paulo, the cold, sleeping Brazilian grid crunches Norwegian seismic data. When it is 3:00
AM in Oslo, the frozen Scandinavian desktops process Brazilian Pre-Salt models.
However, this environment is inherently hostile. You cannot trust a sleeping teenager’s overclocked
PC, you cannot trust a library desktop, and you must account for opportunistic script kiddies
attempting to defraud the Norwegian tax authority. The Marabunta core architecture was explicitly
designed to survive this chaos.

A.2 Phase 1: The Zero-Trust Genesis
To initiate the joint compute session, the lead researchers at USP, NTNU, and Imperial College
must establish a cryptographic perimeter.
The USP orchestrator opens the terminal:

mrb

swarm

init-wolfpack

--purpose

"Abyssal_FWI_Treaty" --threshold 2-of-3

Behind the scenes, this is not a mere database entry. The Marabunta CLI triggers the physical
ChrysalisGrinder. It allocates a 32MB scratchpad and saturates the local L3 cache, executing a
memory-hard Proof-of-Work loop until it derives a NodeId with 26 leading zero-bits. This
mathematically enforces a ~4-second physical cost per identity, neutralizing Sybil botnet attacks.
The CLI then builds the JSON payload and executes an HTTP POST to the local Daemon’s /api/
v1/federation/wolfpack

endpoint.

SwarmMessage::WolfPackProposal

The

Daemon

broadcasts

the

across the Kademlia DHT. A secure, ephemeral BFT

(Byzantine Fault Tolerant) computing coalition is born across three continents.

A.3 Phase 2: Data Gravity & The 1.5TB WASM
Bypass
The raw seismic survey block is 1.5 Terabytes. It sits on a secure academic Storage Area Network
(SAN) in São Paulo.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

71

A Norwegian citizen’s MacBook Air claims a chunk of the wave-equation simulation. Standard
WebAssembly (wasm32) imposes a hard 4GB linear memory limit. Naively passing the dataset via
the DHT ( SwarmMessage::PushBlob ) would instantly trigger a host-level Out-Of-Memory
(OOM) panic, crashing the Swarm.
Instead, the USP JCL manifest specifies a dataset_shard_uri .
The Marabunta WorkEngine intercepts this URI. Inside the HighestsecSandbox , the FWI
algorithm calls a custom host-function: mrb_dataset_stream_read . The Rust host securely
maps the remote SAN file descriptor and streams the 1.5TB dataset across the Atlantic in paginated
1MB windows. The dense wave-equation math executes flawlessly inside the Norwegian
MacBook’s WASM sandbox using less than 50MB of RAM, bypassing the architectural limitations
of WebAssembly via secure, air-gapped host-calls.

A.4 Phase 3: The “PARANOID” Micro-Audit
FWI math is brutally dense. If a UK library desktop with a spinning HDD attempts to run the
simulation, swapping memory pages to disk, it will stall the global pipeline.
To filter the weak hardware, the researchers deploy a custom verify_mode labeled PARANOID .
Before the Orchestrator assigns a heavy wave-equation chunk, the WorkEngine forces a pre-flight
micro-audit. It demands the bidding node allocate a 256MB matrix, execute a rapid deterministic
transformation, and return the cryptographic hash within 2500ms.
A cloud-hosted VM with over-provisioned virtual RAM attempts to swap to a cheap SSD. It fails
the 2500ms timer. The Orchestrator instantly rejects the node’s bid. Only physical, bare-metal
hardware with high-speed DDR5 RAM wins the heavy FWI chunks.

A.5 Phase 4: The Thermal Guillotine
A teenager in London leaves their smartphone charging on the bedside table with the academic
daemon running. The acoustic wave math is so intense it pushes the mobile ARM processor to
91°C, risking a catastrophic battery fire.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

72

The Marabunta HardwareMonitor daemon continuously polls the device sensors. It detects the
critical spike and transitions to ThermalState::Panic .
The WorkEngine iterates over the active sandboxes and fires sandbox.kill_engine() . This
forcefully

increments

the

Wasmtime

epoch,

triggering

an

uncatchable

WasmtimeTrap::Interrupt from deep outside the synchronous C-level FFI boundary.

The WASM thread is violently physically assassinated. The silicon cools down, preventing physical
damage to the citizen’s device. The unfinished chunk is gracefully yielded back to the DHT
( SwarmMessage::YieldChunk ) to be computed by a colder node in Brazil.

A.6 Phase 5: The Script Kiddie & The MMX
Settlement
A script kiddie in Oslo realizes that the Norwegian government is issuing tax breaks based on
Marabunta execution receipts. They write a Python script to spoof the API, instantly returning fake,
randomized FWI stability indices without spending a single CPU cycle on the math.
The USP Orchestrator utilizes MajorityConsensus . It routes the exact same FWI chunk to the
Norwegian script kiddie and an honest Brazilian gaming PC.
The script kiddie returns 0xBAD... . The gamer returns 0x4F2... . The hashes mismatch.
The

VerificationEngine

slash_node()

flags the Norwegian node as an outlier. It executes the

protocol: 1. The node’s Kademlia trust score is dropped to 0.0 . 2. It is

permanently branded with

Badge::Malicious

in the global

ReputationStore . 3. Its

NodeId is blacklisted, isolating it from the DHT.

Finally, the FederationManager settles the economy. It executes settle_verified_work()
based on the agreed_price inside the Assignment struct. The honest Brazilian gamer is
credited with MMX tokens in the SQLite ledger, unlocking their in-game cosmetics. The
Norwegian script kiddie earns 0 credits, receiving no tax break, and is permanently exiled from the
Sovereign Science Fabric.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

73

ANNEX B: Planetary Asymmetric Data
Acquisition
B.0 The Sovereign Scraping Imperative
Modern scientific and economic models are governed by the volume and quality of their data. To
perform massive-scale simulations or market analysis, institutions require continuous, unbounded
access to public and specialized data sources across the global internet.
However, the internet is not open. It is actively defended.
If a sovereign research institute attempts to scrape 50 terabytes of data from a protected domain
using a centralized IP block (e.g., an AWS datacenter in us-east-1 or an Azure cluster in Europe),
they will be immediately neutralized.
Modern Web Application Firewalls (WAFs) and centralized reverse-proxies operate on autonomous,
behavioral rate-limiting. They detect the high-velocity requests originating from a unified IP block,
categorize the traffic as a “botnet,” and issue IP-level bans or endless CAPTCHA challenges,
severing the data supply.
Marabunta bypasses these defenses natively. It utilizes the Swarm to execute Planetary Asymmetric
Data Acquisition.
B.1 The Ephemeral Edge Advantage
The fundamental architecture of Marabunta is a 100-million node peer-to-peer mesh. Crucially, the
vast majority of these nodes (the “Ephemeral” cohort) do not reside in recognizable datacenters.
They are consumer laptops, IoT devices, and smartphones operating on residential IP addresses
(e.g., Comcast, Vodafone, China Telecom) across 190 countries.
This topology is indistinguishable from organic, human web traffic.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

74

When an Administrator submits an MCL (Marabunta Command Language) payload requesting a
massive data extraction operation, the Gateway Assimilator shreds the target URLs into millions of
micro-tasks.

The Implementation: src/swarm/detection/webserver.rs

The Edge nodes execute the HTTP requests directly from their local network interfaces. Because
the requests originate from residential ISP IP addresses, they mathematically bypass datacenter IP
blocklists.
//

Execution

occurs

locally

on

the

Edge

Node

via

the

WebServerDetector

use

std::collections::HashMap; use async_trait::async_trait;
pub struct WebServerDetector { pub host: String, pub port: u16, }
impl WebServerDetector { /// Executes a distributed web request from a residential edge node. pub
async fn execute_extraction(&self, url: &str) -> Result<Vec, &’static str> { let response =
crate::swarm::detection::http_get_raw(&self.host, self.port).await .map_err(|_| “Target unreachable
from local residential node”)?;

// The target domain serves the data, unaware that the

residential // request is part of a coordinated, global swarm. Ok(response) } }
The Ethics of Extration: Consent and Autonomous Throttling
Routing heavy, asymmetric data extraction payloads through the residential IP addresses of
unwitting consumers (the “Ephemeral” nodes) introduces severe legal and ethical liabilities. If a
target domain detects the scraping pattern and blacklists the IP address, a consumer in Praia Grande
or Mumbai could find their home internet banned from accessing standard web services.

Marabunta prevents this through Autonomous Legal Throttling ( src/swarm/detection/

webserver.rs ).

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

75

