ANNEX A: The Sovereign Science Fabric & The Economic Syndicate
A.1 The Geopolitical Context: The Abyssal Treaty
A.2 Phase 1: The Zero-Trust Genesis
A.3 Phase 2: Data Gravity & The 1.5TB WASM Bypass
A.4 Phase 3: The “PARANOID” Micro-Audit
A.5 Phase 4: The Thermal Guillotine
A.6 Phase 5: The Script Kiddie & The MMX Settlement

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

1

ANNEX B: Planetary Asymmetric Data Acquisition

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

2

PREFACE
General Purpose Hyper-Resilient Edge Supercomputing.

"In the abundance of water, the fool is thirsty." — Robert
Nesta Marley, circa 1976

Marabunta started as a charitable High-Performance Computing (HPC) engine meant to give
Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) and other non-governmental organizations the
supercomputing power required to predict Ebola outbreaks and manage responses to natural or
man-made catastrophes, utilizing donor-provided computational FLOPs and algorithms.
Distributing massive AI and scientific workloads into hostile, infrastructure-poor environments
required solving the hardest fundamental problems in distributed systems: bandwidth saturation,
state synchronization, and execution trust.
Cambrian Radiation subsequently realized Marabunta’s broader applications. Having solved those
primitives to ensure the survivability of the network, a generic architecture naturally resulted from
those emerging traits.
The system evolved into a substrate for executing any deterministic code, anywhere on Earth, with
cryptographic proof of accuracy and physical location. Thus, it seems to have become commercially
viable.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

3

VOLUME 01: THE THERMODYNAMIC
ANTI-PATTERN & SWARM PHYSICS
1.1 The Thermodynamic Anti-Pattern
For the past two decades, enterprise architecture has defaulted to the Hyperscaler Paradigm. This
model demands that all data must be extracted from its point of origin and transmitted to a massive,
centralized compute cluster (e.g., AWS us-east-1) before processing can occur.
This centralized ingestion creates three compounding inefficiencies: 1. Data Gravity & Egress
Extortion: Moving 50 Petabytes of raw genomic or financial data across trans-oceanic fiber cables
requires weeks of sustained 100Gbps saturation, and incurs millions of dollars in egress fees.
Iteration velocity is mathematically capped by the physical bandwidth limits of the glass fiber. 2.
The Cooling Monolith: Concentrating 100,000 GPUs in a single facility generates immense,
localized thermal waste. Hyperscalers must construct dedicated water evaporation cooling towers
simply to prevent the silicon from melting. 3. Topological Fragility: Centralized data centers
represent massive single points of failure, vulnerable to localized power grid anomalies, severed
fiber trunks, and geopolitical interference (e.g., the US CLOUD Act).
Marabunta dismantles this paradigm.
Instead of concentrating compute into fragile monoliths, Marabunta treats computation as a fluid,
biological mesh. It parasitically inhabits unused consumer silicon, idle university clusters, and
geographically dispersed edge hardware.
The architecture inverts the physical law of cloud computing: We do not move the data to the
compute. We move the math to the data.
1.2 Identity in a Zero-Trust Vacuum (The Chrysalis Grinder)
To orchestrate millions of untrusted edge devices without a central Identity and Access
Management (IAM) database, Marabunta must fundamentally solve the Sybil problem. A hostile

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

4

state intelligence agency cannot be allowed to spin up 10 million fake node identities in seconds to
poison the routing tables.

Nodes do not request an identity from a master server; they must bleed computational
energy to

derive one.
During the initial boot phase, the marabunta-visor daemon saturates all physical CPU cores,
executing a memory-hard SHA-256 Proof-of-Work (PoW) algorithm to derive a Sybil- resistant
Kademlia Node ID.
The Implementation: src/swarm/pow_worker.rs
use std::sync::atomic::{AtomicBool, AtomicU64, Ordering}; use std::sync::Arc; use std::thread; use
sha2::{Sha256, Digest}; use rand::RngCore;
pub struct ChrysalisGrinder { target_difficulty: u32, is_grinding: Arc, hashes_computed: Arc, }
impl ChrysalisGrinder { pub fn derive_sybil_resistant_identity(&self, hardware_seed: &[u8]) ->
[u8; 32] { self.is_grinding.store(true, Ordering::SeqCst); let num_cores = num_cpus::get(); let mut
handles = vec[]; let (tx, rx) = std::sync::mpsc::channel();

tracing::info!("MARABUNTA: Saturating {} physical cores for

Chrysalis Identity Generation…“, num_cores);

for core_id in 0..num_cores {
let tx_clone = tx.clone();
let is_grinding = self.is_grinding.clone();
let hashes_counter = self.hashes_computed.clone();
let seed = hardware_seed.to_vec();
let target = self.target_difficulty;

handles.push(thread::spawn(move || {
--
ANNEX A: The Sovereign Science
Fabric & The Economic Syndicate
A.1 The Geopolitical Context: The Abyssal Treaty
In the era of localized sovereign computing, the monolithic public cloud is an economic bottleneck
for fundamental science. The egress fees alone render petabyte-scale physics simulations financially
impossible for independent academic and research institutions.
To break this cartel, three nations with deeply aligned petrochemical interests—Brazil, Norway, and
the United Kingdom—established the Abyssal Treaty. Their shared objective: processing
thousands of terabytes of raw acoustic .segy data to perform Full Waveform Inversion (FWI) on
deep-sea seismic reflection models (e.g., the Brazilian Pre-Salt, the Norwegian Barents Sea, and the
UK North Sea).
Rather than renting supercomputers, they pooled their sovereign citizen networks into a single,
time-zone-arbitraged Marabunta Swarm.

The Three Pillars of the Fabric:
1. Brazil (The Gamer Grid): Bundled as an opt-in background daemon within a massively
popular indie video game developed by IME/USP alumni. Millions of Brazilian teenagers with
high-end, L3-heavy Ryzen CPUs and DDR5 RAM donate compute cycles while they sleep in
exchange for MMX micro-credits, which unlock exclusive cosmetic skins.
2. Norway (The Civic Tax Swarm): A progressive Scandinavian digital initiative where citizens
run the Marabunta daemon on idle MacBooks and home servers. At the end of the fiscal year,
cryptographically verified MMX execution receipts are burned in exchange for microdeductions on their income tax.
3. The UK (The Night-Shift Academic Net): Imperial College and allied universities link
hundreds of thousands of library desktops and Raspberry Pi lab clusters that sit idle from 8:00
PM to 8:00 AM.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

70

Because the sun never sets on this fabric, thermodynamic efficiency is absolute. When it is 3:00 AM
in São Paulo, the cold, sleeping Brazilian grid crunches Norwegian seismic data. When it is 3:00
AM in Oslo, the frozen Scandinavian desktops process Brazilian Pre-Salt models.
However, this environment is inherently hostile. You cannot trust a sleeping teenager’s overclocked
PC, you cannot trust a library desktop, and you must account for opportunistic script kiddies
attempting to defraud the Norwegian tax authority. The Marabunta core architecture was explicitly
designed to survive this chaos.

A.2 Phase 1: The Zero-Trust Genesis
To initiate the joint compute session, the lead researchers at USP, NTNU, and Imperial College
must establish a cryptographic perimeter.
The USP orchestrator opens the terminal:

mrb

swarm

init-wolfpack

--purpose

"Abyssal_FWI_Treaty" --threshold 2-of-3

Behind the scenes, this is not a mere database entry. The Marabunta CLI triggers the physical
ChrysalisGrinder. It allocates a 32MB scratchpad and saturates the local L3 cache, executing a
memory-hard Proof-of-Work loop until it derives a NodeId with 26 leading zero-bits. This
mathematically enforces a ~4-second physical cost per identity, neutralizing Sybil botnet attacks.
The CLI then builds the JSON payload and executes an HTTP POST to the local Daemon’s /api/
v1/federation/wolfpack

endpoint.

SwarmMessage::WolfPackProposal

The

Daemon

broadcasts

the

across the Kademlia DHT. A secure, ephemeral BFT

(Byzantine Fault Tolerant) computing coalition is born across three continents.

A.3 Phase 2: Data Gravity & The 1.5TB WASM
Bypass
The raw seismic survey block is 1.5 Terabytes. It sits on a secure academic Storage Area Network
(SAN) in São Paulo.

THE MARABUNTA BIBLE

71

A Norwegian citizen’s MacBook Air claims a chunk of the wave-equation simulation. Standard
WebAssembly (wasm32) imposes a hard 4GB linear memory limit. Naively passing the dataset via
the DHT ( SwarmMessage::PushBlob ) would instantly trigger a host-level Out-Of-Memory
(OOM) panic, crashing the Swarm.
Instead, the USP JCL manifest specifies a dataset_shard_uri .
The Marabunta WorkEngine intercepts this URI. Inside the HighestsecSandbox , the FWI
algorithm calls a custom host-function: mrb_dataset_stream_read . The Rust host securely
maps the remote SAN file descriptor and streams the 1.5TB dataset across the Atlantic in paginated
1MB windows. The dense wave-equation math executes flawlessly inside the Norwegian
MacBook’s WASM sandbox using less than 50MB of RAM, bypassing the architectural limitations
of WebAssembly via secure, air-gapped host-calls.

A.4 Phase 3: The “PARANOID” Micro-Audit
FWI math is brutally dense. If a UK library desktop with a spinning HDD attempts to run the
simulation, swapping memory pages to disk, it will stall the global pipeline.
To filter the weak hardware, the researchers deploy a custom verify_mode labeled PARANOID .
